Added blog post about Prometheus Agent. (#2057)
prometheus/docs: content/blog/2021-11-02-agent.md

Now let's take a look on currently implemented state of agent mode in Prometheus. Is it ready to use?

### Agent Mode Was Proven on Scale

Next release of Prometheus will include Agent mode as experimental feature. Flags, APIs and WAL format on disk might change. But the performance of implementation is already battle-tested thanks to [Grafana Labs](https://grafana.com/) open-source work.

Initial implementation of our agent, custom WAL was inspired by current Prometheus TSDB WAL and created by [Robert Fratto](https://github.com/rfratto) in 2019, under the mentorship of [Tom Wilkie](https://twitter.com/tom_wilkie), Prometheus maintainer. It was then used in open-source [Grafana Agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent) project that was since then, used by many Grafana Cloud customers and community members. Given maturity of the solution it was about the time to donate the implementation to Prometheus for native integration and bigger adoption. Robert (Grafana Labs) with the help of Srikrishna (Red Hat) and community ported the code to Prometheus codebase which was merged to `main` last week! 🤗 

> It's important to understand that it's not easy to write amazing code 

Reviewer: Seems like an incomplete thought here?

The strong focus of the Prometheus community allowed other open source projects to grow (e.g. [Cortex](https://cortexmetrics.io/), [Thanos](https://thanos.io/) and more) to extend Prometheus data model beyond single clusters. Not mentioning cloud vendors adopting Prometheus API and data model (e.g. [Amazon Managed Prometheus](https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/), [Google Cloud Managed Prometheus](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/docs/managed-prometheus), [Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/) and more). If you are looking for a single reason why Prometheus project is so successful, it is this: *Focusing the monitoring community on what matters*.

> In this blog post I would love to introduce you a new mode of running Prometheus called "agent". It is built directly into the Prometheus binary. The agent mode blocks some of the Prometheus features and optimizes the binary for scraping and remote writing to remote location. While reducing number of features on the solution sounds like a regression, I will explain you why it is a game changer for certain deployments in the CNCF ecosystem. I am personally super excited for this! (:

Reviewer 2: I would avoid the word regression, and turn this positively.

Reducing number of features enables new usage patterns. It is a game changer for certain deployments in the CNCF ecosystem, as I will explain below.

Author: I called "regression" on purpose so it sounds negatively - so I can turn explain that it is opposite. Happy to remove it if still a problem.

## History of the Forwarding Use Case

> The core design of Prometheus has been unchanged for the whole project lifetime. Inspired by the Google Borgmon, you can deploy it next to the application you want to monitor, tell Prometheus where they are and allow Prometheus to scrape the current values of their metrics every configured interval. Such collection method, which is often referred as "pull model" is the core principle that allows Prometheus to be lightweight and ultra reliable. Furthermore, it allows applications and exporters to be dead simple as they need to provide a simple human-readable HTTP page with current metric values (in Open Metric format), without complex push infrastructure as we typically see. Overall, in simple view, typical Prometheus monitoring deployment looks as presented below:

Reviewer 2: Should we refer to Julius' blog post? https://prometheus.io/blog/2016/07/23/pull-does-not-scale-or-does-it/

Other interesting use case that emerges is the notion of **Edge** clusters or networks. With the industries like telecommunication, automotive and IoTs adopting cloud native technologies we see more and more smaller clusters with restricted amount of resources. This is forcing all observability data to be transferred to remote, bigger counterparts as almost nothing can be stored on those remote nodes.

What that means? That means monitoring data has to be somehow aggregated, presented to users and sometimes even stored on the *global* level. This is often called a **Global View** feature.

Naively we could think about implementing this by putting Prometheus on global level and scrape metrics cross networks, neither push metric directly from application to central location for monitoring purposes. Let me explain why those are bad ideas:

> * Scrape across network is a terrible idea as we employ a huge amount of unknowns to our monitoring pipeline. The pull model allows Prometheus to know why exactly metric target has problems and when. Maybe it's down, misconfigured, restarted, too slow to give us metrics (e.g CPU saturated), not discoverable by service discovery, we don't have credentials to access or just DNS, network or whole cluster is down. By putting our scraper outside of the network we risk losing some of the information due to unreliable scrape and irregular scrape intervals. Don't do it, it's not worth it. (:

Reviewer 2: "network" means anything. It's not always a terrible idea. Can we use `can be a terrible idea if it adds a huge amount of unknowns to our monitoring pipeline` ?

It's important to note that reliable remote-writing solution is a non-trivial problem to solve. Prometheus community spent around 3 years to come with stable and scalable implementation. We reimplemented WAL (Write-Ahead-Log), added internal queuing, sharding, smart back-offs and more. All of this is hidden from the user who can enjoy well-performing streaming or large amounts of metrics off clusters. 

### Hands-on Example: Katacoda

All of this is not new in Prometheus. Many already use Prometheus to scrape all required metrics and remote-write all or some of them to remote locations.

If you would like hands-on experience of remote write capabilities, we recommend our [Thanos Katacoda tutorial of remote writing metrics from Prometheus](https://katacoda.com/thanos/courses/thanos/3-receiver) which explains all steps required for Prometheus to forward all metrics to remote location.

So why we added special Agent mode to Prometheus?

## Prometheus Agent Mode

> From Prometheus `v2.31.0` (next release), everyone will be able to run Prometheus binary in a new experimental `--enableagent` mode. If you want to try it before the release, feel free to build Prometheus from `main` branch or use our `quay.io/prometheus/prometheus:main` image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From Prometheus `v2.32.0` (next release), everyone will be able to run Prometheus binary with an experimental `--enable-feature=agent` flag. If you want to try it before the release, feel free to use [Prometheus v2.32.0-beta.0](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/releases/tag/v2.32.0-beta.0) or use our `quay.io/prometheus/prometheus:v2.32.0-beta.0` image.
```
